Document pipelast (#178)
reason-association/reasonml.org: pages/docs/manual/latest/pipe-last.mdx

# Pipe Last

> 

Author: Changed as suggested

> `|>` is similar to [pipe first (`->`)](./pipe-first) but it sends the left side value to the last argument of the right side. `a(b, c)` becomes `c|>a(b)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`|>`](https://reasonml.github.io/api/Pervasives.html#VAL(|%3E)) is similar to [pipe first (`->`)](./pipe-first) but it sends the left side value to the last argument of the right side. `c |> a(b)` becomes `a(b, c)`.
```

Author: Thanks. Changing as suggested.

> Note that pipe last has a runtime cost due to runtime currying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that pipe last may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.
```

Author: Thanks. Changing as suggested.

> Note that pipe last may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.

Reviewer 2: - The cases where `|>` produces a runtime function call are few and far between, thanks to lots of compiler optimization, so highlighting that as a difference is not strictly wrong, but it's a bit misleading
- `_` is a language feature unrelated to pipes, and it works fine with pipe last, so this is inaccurate
- `getExn` isn't a pattern that should be encouraged... maybe something like `map` here instead?

> Note that pipe last may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.

Reviewer: @mlms13 see my review here https://github.com/reason-association/reasonml.org/pull/178#pullrequestreview-405221791

> Note that pipe last may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.

Reviewer 2: Ah, inline review. Good call :)

> Note that pipe last may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.

Author: Thanks I will update my PR based on the comments.

> Note that pipe last may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.

Author: Thanks for the feedback!

@mlms13 https://github.com/reason-association/reasonml.org/pull/178/commits/d40265717ca1a83ddf1c65010e72ab81f1ea9fe7

^ I used `isSome` instead of the suggested `map` because `map` takes 2 arguments and the 2nd argument is a transforming function. Let me know if this seems ok!

> ### Tips & Tricks

Author: removed

For bucklescript codebases, try to use pipe first over pipe last whenever it makes sense. 

> That helps the compiler to eliminate runtime currying and it's also easier to map to JS apis due to their t-first nature

Reviewer: For the rest of this 'Tips and Tricks' section, I would suggest to not cover the advantages of pipe-first, or placeholders, since those are already covered in the pipe-first doc page. Instead maybe a para about when you _would_ want to use pipe-last (for code that's intended to be portable or more functional-style).

Author: @yawaramin I have to admit that I don't know enough about when pipe-last would be desirable. If you don't mind, could you add a commit for that paragraph?

Reviewer: Not much to add 🙂 maybe just:

> You may come across or use the pipe-last operator in certain situations like when using libraries which use it, or when writing libraries intended to be portable to native Reason/OCaml.

# Pipe Last

<Warn>

> We discourage the usage of the `|>` / pipe-last operator in BuckleScript codebases. Using it may sometimes have a runtime cost due to currying.

Reviewer 3: i forgot to put a newline between the `<Warn>` and the text in my original comment... this prevents MDX from rendering the content as markdown...

so it would be required to do:

~~~
<Warn>

We discourage the usage [...]

</Warn>
~~~

Sorry 😅

Author: @ryyppy 👍 No worries, fixing as suggested. I actually never worked on MDX files before. I learn new things every day which is good.

Please use the [pipe-first](./pipe-first) operator instead.

Pipe-last is mainly used in native / OCaml codebases or in functional programming libraries
aiming for a `data last` approach. You'll also find it in older Reason codebases and libraries.
</Warn>

[`|>`](https://reasonml.github.io/api/Pervasives.html#VAL(|%3E)) is an infix operator for piping a value to the last argument position of a function.

**Example:**

```reason
let personSays = (person, msg) => person ++ " says: " ++ msg;

"This will be put in the msg arg"
  |> personSays("Alpaca");

/* Returns: "Alpaca says: This will be put in the msg arg */
```

### Differences between pipe-last and pipe-first

> - Pipe-last is a **function defined as an infix operator**. Pipe-first (`->`) is implemented as syntactic sugar within BuckleScript (no runtime function call involved)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pipe-last is a **binding to a compiler intrinsic,** it will optimize some currying, but not all. Pipe-first (`->`) is implemented as syntactic sugar within BuckleScript and guarantees zero extra currying overhead.
```

Author: suggestion accepted

> - Pipe-last doesn't support the placeholder syntax (`_`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Pipe-last supports placeholder syntax.

Reviewer 3: Oh snap, I didn't know that Reason also transforms pipe last placeholders!

Author: Removed
